---
book: "Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes"
book_slug: "mordenkainen_s_tome_of_foes"
pages: "14-14"
section: "Tiamat Waits And Watches"
keywords: ["about", "abriymoch", "accusations", "advantage", "any", "as", "asmodeus", "at", "being", "belia", "blood war", "city", "constant", "culmination", "definitively", "devilish", "disputes", "distant", "down", "enjoying"]
---


--- Page 14 ---

sway others with his interpersonal skills and focuses 
on the duties of ruling a layer of the Nine Hells. The two 
seem to hate and admire one another in equal measure 
and are in constant competition. Every time Belia! out-
thinks Fierna, she talks her way out of whatever trap he 
has devised. Fierna stages insurrections against Belia!, 
but his contingency plans rescue him from possible 
disaster. Other devils might gain a brief advantage over 
the two lords because of their infighting, but whenever 
any true threat to their rule arises, the seeming enemies 
cooperate to dispatch pretenders to their shared throne. 
FIERY REALM OF DARK DELIGHTS 
The pair rules over Phlegethos, an expanse filled with 
immense volcanoes that expel rivers of lava into a sea of 
molten rock. The fires that burn throughout Phlegethos 
seem to be sentient. They leap at intruders, appearing to 
take delight in setting creatures and objects aflame. 
At the same time, the fires of Phlegethos do no harm 
to any denizens of the Nine Hells. Even devils that are 
susceptible to fire suffer no injury or pain from exposure 
to them. The realm's primary city, Abriymoch, is a plea-
sure palace of sorts for devils that are enjoying a respite 
from their duties. Abriymoch is filled with devilish ver-
sions of taverns, theaters, casinos, and other entertain-
ments. In contrast to the stiff regimentation of the rest 
of the Nine Hells, the laws that govern Abriymoch allow 
the place to operate as a carnival in which any wanton 
desire can be fulfilled. 
JUSTICE IN ALL ITS FORMS 
Phlegethos is the center of the Nine Hells' judicial sys-
tem, which is overseen by Belia!. Any disputes regarding 
contracts, accusations of cowardice in battle or dere-
liction of duty, and other criminal charges are resolved 
here. The Diabolical Court is an independent institution, 
answering only to Asmodeus. That fact doesn't discour-
age devils from constantly plotting to introduce new 
laws or to set precedents that they find advantageous. 
The court's function and its decisions are wholly depen-
dent on the intricate laws of the Nine Hells, an impos-
sibly complex code marred by a multitude of loopholes 
and exceptions that can cause any legal dealings to drag 
out for years before a resolution is reached. 
Belia! and his underlings also administer the proce-
dure that determines the fate of devils that are in line 
for promotion or demotion. At the culmination of the 
process, the candidates are made vulnerable to the fires 
of Phlegethos through a special ritual designed for this 
purpose. The flames either bring searing agony that re-
duces a devil to a weaker form, or ecstatic joy that trans-
forms it into a mightier being. 
SOUL SEARCHING 
Like the rulers of the other layers, Belia! and Fierna 
have a quota of souls they must meet. Belia! largely 
leaves this task to Fierna, even turning over to her the 
mortals that directly contact him. Fierna offers her sup-
plicants the gift of personal influence, endowing them 
with a glib tongue and the ability to mold others' emo-
tions as they see fit. Her agents typically concentrate on 
swaying mortals who already seek to manipulate others. 
Mortals who are desperate to attain positions of power 
and status entreat her, as do those who- for whatever 
reason- need to be loved, feared, or respected. 
Fierna takes a direct interest in the soul trade. Her 
prodigious intellect allows her to glean the best infor-
mation from the mountains of reports generated by her 
agents on the Material Plane. Fierna sometimes person-
ally takes a role in bending a mortal's emotions to her 
will, as a way to better understand the workings of mor-
tal hearts and minds. What she or Belia! intends to do 
with their accumulated knowledge none can definitively 
say, but rumors exist that Fierna has stolen the secret of 
how to travel freely between the Nine Hells and the Ma-
terial Plane from the archlich Vecna. The fact that the 
denizens of the Nine Hells take such rumors seriously is 
a clear indication of their respect for Fierna's power. 
LEVISTUS 
THOUGH ICE MIGHT HOLD MY BODY IN PLACE, IT HAS 
done nothing to contain my ambition. 
-Levistus 
Even by the otherworldly standards of the Nine Hells, 
the realm of Stygia and its lord, Levistus, both occupy 
strange positions in the hierarchy. Stygia is a frozen 
wasteland of mysterious origin, a churning, murky sea 
covered in a thick layer of ice. Where the ice gives way to 
open water, immense icebergs drift on the unpredictable 
currents. Levistus is trapped within one of these bergs, 
imprisoned there by Asmodeus for reasons that few can 
even guess about. 
As part of Levistus's punishment, Asmodeus decreed 
that he must offer escape and safety to the desperate, 
especially those who fear for their lives. A criminal 
might entreat Levistus on the eve of his execution, for 
instance, agreeing to exchange his soul for a boon that 
enables him to escape to safety. With nothing to do in 
his tomb other than answer distant entreaties from the 
Material Plane, Levistus has attracted the devotion of 
a wide variety of criminals, rascals, and ne'er-do-wells 
across a multitude of worlds. He continues to meet his 
quota of souls, both despite his lack of mobility and be-
cause of it. Being imprisoned means that Levistus can 
focus his full attention on such matters, which allows 
him to excel at what he does. 
A CONTESTED REALM 
Levistus was not always the lord of Stygia. The arch-
devil Geryon previously ruled over the layer. The two 
constantly vied for control of Stygia. The conflict ended 
when Asmodeus brought down his punishment on Le-
vistus, who was frozen just after his latest victory over 
Geryon. The displaced lord still schemes to supplant 
Levistus as ruler of the realm, but he can't directly affect 
his foe, since the ice that imprisons Levistus is impervi-
ous to harm. 
Violence does, however, remain a viable option for 
Geryon against Levistus's servants. As such, Stygia 
has become a war-wracked realm. Any devils bound to 
either of the archdevils that aren't needed for service in 
the Blood War engage in constant skirmishes across the 
ice, and yugoloths and other mercenaries from across 
CHAPTER 1 I THE BLOOD WAR 
