---
book: "Dungeon Master's Guide"
book_slug: "dungeon_master_s_guide"
pages: "290-290"
section: "Appendix A: Random Dungeons"
keywords: ["above", "after", "alternatively", "available", "beyond", "chamber", "circle", "configuration \nsquare", "continue", "detail", "diameter", "different", "door", "down", "exceed", "first", "following", "generating", "if", "initial"]
---


--- Page 290 ---

290 
APPENDIX A: RANDOM DUNGEONS 
HIS APPENDIX HELPS YOU QUICKLY GENERATE 
a dungeon. The tables work in an iterative 
manner. First, roll a starting area, then roll to 
determine the passages and doors found in 
that area. One you have initial passages and 
doors, determine the location and nature of 
subsequent passages, doors, chambers, stairs, and so 
on- each of them generated by rolls on different tables. 
Following these instructions can lead to sprawling 
complexes that more than fill a single sheet of graph 
paper. If you want to constrain the dungeon, establish 
limits ahead of time on how far it can grow. 
The most obvious limit to a dungeon's size is the 
graph paper it's drawn on. If a feature would exceed 
the boundaries of the page, curtail it. A corridor might 
turn or come to a dead end at the map's edge, or you can 
make a chamber smaller to fit the available space. 
Alternatively, you can decide that passages leading off 
the edge of the map are additional dungeon entrances. 
Stairs, shafts, and other features that would normally 
lead to levels you don't plan to map can serve a 
similar purpose. 
STARTING AREA 
The Starting Area table produces a chamber or a set of 
corridors at the entrance to your dungeon. When rolling 
for a random starting area, pick one of the doors or 
passages leading into the starting area as the entrance 
to the dungeon as a whole. 
Once you've selected the entrance, roll on the 
appropriate table for each passage or door leading away 
from the starting area. Passages each extend 10 feet 
beyond the starting area. After that point, check on the 
Passage table for each passage to determine what lies 
beyond. Use the Beyond a Door table to determine what 
lies behind doors and secret doors. 
STARTING AREA 
dlO 
Configuration 
Square, 20 x 20ft.; passage on each wall 
2 
Square, 20 x 20ft.; door on two walls, passage in 
third wall 
3 
Square, 40 x 40 ft.; doors on three walls 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Rectangle, 80 x 20ft., with row of pil lars down the 
middle; two passages leading from each long wall, 
doors on each short wa ll 
Rectangle, 20 x 40ft.; passage on each wall 
Circle, 40ft. diameter; one passage at each 
cardinal direction 
Circle, 40ft. diameter; one passage in each 
cardinal direction; well in middle of room (might 
lead down to lower level) 
8 
Square, 20 x 20ft.; door on two wal ls, passage on 
third wall, secret door on fourth wall 
9 
Passage, 10 ft. wide; T intersection 
10 
Passage, 10ft. wide; four-way intersection 
APPENDIX A I RANDOM DUNGEONS 
PASSAGES 
When generating passages and corridors, roll on the 
Passage table multiple times, extending the length and 
branches of any open passage on the map until you 
arrive at a door or chamber. 
Whenever you create a new passage, roll to determine 
its width. If the passage branches from another passage 
roll a d12 on the Passage Width table. If it comes from 
a chamber, roll a d20 on that table, but the width of the 
passage must be at least 5 feet smaller than the longest 
dimension of the chamber. 
PASSAGE 
d20 
Detail 
1-2 
Continue straight 30ft., no doors or side passages 
3 
Continue straight 20ft., door to the right, then an 
additional 10 ft. ahead 
4 
Continue straight 20ft., door to the left, then an 
additional 10 ft. ahead 
5 
Continue straight 20ft.; passage ends in a door 
6-7 
Continue straight 20ft., side passage to the right. 
then an additional 10ft. ahead 
8-9 
Continue straight 20ft., side passage to the left, 
then an additionallO ft. ahead 
10 
Continue straight 20ft., comes to a dead end; 10 
percent chance of a secret door 
11-12 
Continue straight 20ft., then the passage turns 
left and continues 10 ft. 
13-14 
Continue straight 20ft., then the passage turns 
right and continues 10ft. 
15-19 
Chamber (roll on the Chamber table) 
20 
Stairs* (roll on the Stairs table) 
,., The existence of stairs presumes a dungeon with more than 
one level. If you don't want a multilevel dungeon, reroll this 
result, use the stairs as an alternative entrance, or replace t he~ 
with another feature of your choice. 
PASSAGE WIDTH 
dl2fd20 Width 
1-2 
5 ft. 
3-12 
lOft. 
13-14 
20ft. 
15-16 
30ft. 
17 
40ft., with row of pillars down the middle 
18 
40ft., with double row of pillars 
19 
40ft. wide, 20ft. high 
20 
40ft. wide, 20ft. high, gallery 10ft. above floor 
allows access to level above 
